Runner Targeting Documentaiton (#3409)
hashicorp/waypoint: website/content/docs/runner/index.mdx

On-demand runners: see [on-demand runners](/docs/runner/on-demand-runner) for more information.

## Runner Targeting

> Runner targeting allows Waypoint apps to choose on which runners their operations happen. A runner `profile` can be specified
> in the `runner` stanza in the `waypoint.hcl` file. The `runner profile` can be configured to use a specific static runner,
> or multiple, based on labels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Runner targeting allows users to configure Waypoint to target specific runners to execute operations for an application. A runner `profile` can be specified
in the `runner` stanza in the `waypoint.hcl` file. The `runner profile` can be configured to use a specific static runner,
or multiple, based on labels.
```

### Runner Targeting Example

Runners can have labels applied to them with the `-label` flag provided alongside the `waypoint runner agent` command.

```terminal

> % WAYPOINT_SERVER_ADDR=localhost:9701 WAYPOINT_SERVER_TLS=true waypoint runner agent -label=org=hashicorp -label=env=dev -cookie=0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ waypoint runner agent -label=org=hashicorp -label=env=dev
```

I'm not sure if cookie is required, but let's simplify this command so people can see the important flags for labeling a runner

```

> After the runner is started up, it can be adopted by the server for use in remote operations. With `waypoint runner list`,
> you can see the full list of available runners & their labels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the runner has started, it can be adopted by the server for use in remote operations. With `waypoint runner list`,
you can see the full list of available runners and their labels.
```

```shell-session
% waypoint runner list
              ID             |  STATE   |  KIND  |         LABELS         | LAST REGISTERED
-----------------------------+----------+--------+------------------------+------------------
  01G4N53X8DCJR3DJ9R56D6KZKH | pending  | remote | env:dev org:hashicorp  |

% waypoint runner adopt 01G4N53X8DCJR3DJ9R56D6KZKH
Runner "01G4N53X8DCJR3DJ9R56D6KZKH" adopted.

% waypoint runner list
              ID             |  STATE   |  KIND  |         LABELS         | LAST REGISTERED
-----------------------------+----------+--------+------------------------+------------------
  01G4N53X8DCJR3DJ9R56D6KZKH | adopted  | remote | env:dev org:hashicorp  |
```

> With a created runner that has labels applied, you can then create a runner profile to target that runner (or runners).
> When this runner profile is used, Waypoint will only generate on-demand runners using a runner whose labels match those
> specified in the runner profile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With a runner that has labels applied, you can then create a runner profile to target that runner (or runners).
When this runner profile is used, Waypoint will only generate on-demand runners using a runner whose labels match those
specified in the runner profile.
```

```terminal

> % waypoint runner profile set -name=docker-hashicorp-dev -plugin-type=docker -target-runner-label=org=hashicorp -target-runner-label=env=dev

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ waypoint runner profile set -name=docker-hashicorp-dev -plugin-type=docker -target-runner-label=org=hashicorp -target-runner-label=env=dev
```

  }

  build {
    # ...
  }

  deploy {
    # ...
  }

  release {
    # ...
  }
}

variable "org" {
  type = string
}
```

An operation which would use the runner profile created in this example could be initiated with `waypoint build -w=dev -var=org=hashicorp -local=false`.

### Runner Targeting Advantages

The example above demonstrates basic usage of runner targeting. However, in a production environment, runner targeting
may be essential to achieving high availability. Multiple runners could be deployed with the same labels, and then a
runner profile which targets runners with those labels would "round robin" between the available runners. If one goes down,
as long as another with the same labels is still online, remote operations will continue to work.

Also evidenced in the example is runner targeting for multi-env operations. In the example, the workspace of the operation,
dev, is interpolated into the runner profile name dynamically at operation runtime. Additional runners & runner profiles
could be created for a "test" or "prod" environment, for example, so that at runtime a runner to deploy to the right environment
is used.

> Runner targeting is also useful for workflows where you deploy to multiple clusters in a platform. For example, if you have
> a runner in one Kubernetes cluster, that runner could potentially only perform remote operations within that cluster. However,
> if there were a runner in multiple Kubernetes clusters, you would have the ability to deploy to any of the clusters with
> Waypoint remote operations by targeting the appropriate runners in each cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Runner targeting is useful for workflows where you deploy to multiple clusters in a platform. For example, if you have
a runner in one Kubernetes cluster, that runner could potentially only perform remote operations within that cluster. However,
if there were a runner in multiple Kubernetes clusters, you would have the ability to deploy to any of the clusters with
Waypoint remote operations by targeting the appropriate runners in each cluster.
```

> 

Reviewer: This is something you can likely configure in your editor, but for code as well as documentation, we want to keep the lines as close to 80 characters long as possible, and I think this is over that?
